[RFC] Extend PE Fieldset - Stage 2 Proposal (#1295)
elastic/ecs: rfcs/text/0014-extend-file-pe.md

# 0014: Extend the PE field set

> - Stage: **2 (draft)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stage: **2 (candidate)**
```

<!--
Stage 2: Included a real world example source document. Ideally this example comes from the source(s) identified in stage 1. If not, it should replace them. The goal here is to validate the utility of these field changes in the context of a real world example. Format with the source name as a ### header and the example document in a GitHub code block with json formatting.

> https[://]c4a08b8258a848efb518dcea18a1d11e[.]us-central1[.]gcp[.]cloud[.]es[.]io/goto/51d883b52d4ad99d9200c1b25cf1b5c9

Reviewer: Is this something we want to add to the comments here, or is it just something that was left in unintentionally?

Author: Unintentionally. Removed.

-->
```
"file": {
  "pe": {
    "machine_type": 332,

>     "flattened": {

Reviewer: Based on the definitions [here](https://github.com/elastic/ecs/blob/master/rfcs/text/0014/pe.yml), both `debug` and `resources` would be directly underneath the `pe.*` top-level?

Author: @ebeahan do you mean that in `0014-extend-file-pe.md` there's this example
```
"file": {
  "pe": {
    "machine_type": 332,
    "flattened": {
      "debug": [
        {
...
```
and in `pe.yml` it's reflected like this
```
---
- name: pe

  fields:

    - name: icon.hash.dhash
      level: extended
      type: keyword
      description: >
        Difference Hash (dhash) to find files with a visually similar icon or thumbnail.

      example: b806e17c8e330d82

    - name: debug
      level: extended
      type: nested
      description: >
        Debug information, if present
...
```

@dcode, was the intention to be `file.pe.{debug,resources}.*` or `file.pe.flattened.{debug,resources}.*`

Author: Questions caused be stale data examples. Refactoring.

      "debug": [
        {
          "codeview": {
            "signature": "RSDS",
            "name": "G:\\Work\\new\\2345Pinyin\\bin\\Win32\\Release\\pdb\\2345PinyinSymbol.pdb",
            "guid": "c27b9b78-caab-4629-9bf7-6acb4b63ac18",
            "age": 1
          },
          "offset": 350324,
          "size": 90,
          "type_str": "IMAGE_DEBUG_TYPE_CODEVIEW",
          "type": 2,
          "timestamp": "Tue Jan 26 09:13:07 2021"
        }
      ],
      "resources": [
        {
          "chi2": 257629.96875,
          "filetype": "Data",
          "entropy": 3.32720947265625,
          "sha256": "49ba440033219598d7a9e5e27f5185063634c379dfaf4b188e49f0f43572beef",
          "type": "RT_ICON",
          "lang": "CHINESE SIMPLIFIED"
        }
      ]
    },
    "file_version": "7.4.0.8215",
    "product": "2345王牌输入法",
    "imports": [
      {
        "name": "GetStdHandle",
        "library_name": "KERNEL32.dll",
        "type": "function"
      }
    ],

>     "comments": "pinyin.2345.cc",

Reviewer: I don't see `comments` in the proposed extended `pe.*` fields or the current ones. Is this a field to add?

Author: @dcode were the comments added from your dataset or is that part of the PE file?

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

>     "overlay": {

Reviewer: Same observation as `comments`, `overlay` isn't a field I've seen included before.

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

      "chi2": 26219.931640625,
      "filetype": "Data",
      "entropy": 7.256883144378662,
      "offset": 480768,
      "size": 14512,
      "md5": "9a620f3583cc366f44e66df2a0f949a3"
    },
    "description": "2345王牌输入法-特殊符号输入器",
    "creation_date": "2021-01-26T09:13:07.000Z",

>     "compilers": [

Reviewer: Again looking at the fields [defined so far](https://github.com/elastic/ecs/blob/master/rfcs/text/0014/pe.yml), `compiler.name` and `compiler.version` are defined (not `compilers`). Right now neither is indicated to be a list.

Looks like we need to revisit?

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

      "id: 241, version: 40116 count=14",
      "id: 243, version: 40116 count=153",
      "id: 242, version: 40116 count=30",
      "id: 259, version: 26706 count=25",
      "id: 261, version: 26706 count=74",
      "id: 260, version: 26706 count=35",
      "id: 261, version: 27032 count=2",
      "[ C ] VS2008 SP1 build 30729 count=5",
      "[---] Unmarked objects count=344",
      "[IMP] VS2008 SP1 build 30729 count=21",
      "[---] Unmarked objects (old) count=1",
      "id: 260, version: 27026 count=1",
      "id: 265, version: 27026 count=131",
      "id: 255, version: 27026 count=1",
      "id: 151, version: 0 count=1",
      "id: 258, version: 27026 count=1"
    ],
    "sections": [
      {
        "chi2": 1829004.63,
        "virtual_address": 4096,
        "entropy": 6.49,
        "flags": "rx",
        "name": ".text",
        "raw_size": 260096,

>         "virtual_size": 259926,

Reviewer: Neither `sections.virtual_size` nor `sections.md5` are defined under `sections` currently.

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

        "md5": "c001ed496e2cad5bb280d0d0bd97d4b4"
      }
    ],
    "compile_timestamp": "2021-01-26T09:13:07.000Z",
    "imphash": "12b9b9807742673c75c934de534f2014",
    "original_file_name": "2345PinyinSymbol.exe",
    "company": "版权所有(c) 2020, 2345移动科技",

>     "main_icon": {

Reviewer: `main_icon` also not currently defined.

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

      "hash": {
        "dhash": "e0c8f0b0b0acc071",
        "md5": "8f852053f4dc483d5e25b2a663a4b0b4"
      }
    },
    "entry_point": 165321,
    "hash": {

>       "authentihash": "f489ddcf530ae777496441f1409989015ab9e32e57f5f5d7e51e6908ee1dc503"

Reviewer: `authentihash` right now is defined at `pe.authentihash` and not `pe.hash.authentihash`.

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

    },

>     "rich_pe_header": {

Reviewer: `rich_pe_header` is another new one. What's defined right now in the RFC is `rich_header.hash.md5`

Author: Questions caused by stale data examples. Refactoring.

## Scope of impact

> There should be no breaking changes, depreciation strategies, or significant refactoring as this is creating a sub-field for the existing file. fieldset.

Reviewer 2: For consistency of language, consider replacing "the existing file. fieldset" with "the `file` top-level fieldset"

> There should be no breaking changes, depreciation strategies, or significant refactoring as this is creating a sub-field for the existing file. fieldset.

Author: ```suggestion
There should be no breaking changes, depreciation strategies, or significant refactoring as this is creating a sub-field for the `file` top-level fieldset.
```
